docs/index.md, before:

[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/IBM/dataset-lifecycle-framework)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/datashim-io/datashim)
[![CII Best Practices](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/4821/badge)](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/4821)

# Datashim

<img src="./pictures/lfaidata-project-badge-incubation-color.png" alt="drawing" width="200"/>

## Overview

Datashim is a Kubernetes Framework to provide easy access to S3 and NFS
**Datasets** within pods. It orchestrates the provisioning of **Persistent
Volume Claims** and **ConfigMaps** needed for each **Dataset**.

Datashim introduces the **Dataset** CRD which is a pointer to existing S3 and
NFS data sources. It includes the necessary logic to map these Datasets into
Persistent Volume Claims and ConfigMaps which users can reference in their pods,
letting them focus on the workload development and not on
configuring/mounting/tuning the data access. Thanks to
[Container Storage Interface](https://kubernetes-csi.github.io/docs/) it is
extensible to support additional data sources in the future.

![DLF](./pictures/dlf.png)

## Installing

!!! tip

    Make sure you also read the [post-install steps](#post-install-steps)
    as they contain important information

### Using Helm

Add the Datashim Helm repository with the following commands:

```bash
helm repo add datashim https://datashim-io.github.io/datashim/
helm repo update
```

Once this has completed, run:

```bash
helm search repo datashim --versions
```

To verify that the repository has been added correctly. You can now install
Datashim with:

```bash
helm install --namespace=dlf --create-namespace \
              datashim datashim/datashim-charts
```

### Using manifests

If you prefer, you can install Datashim using the manifests provided. Start by
creating the `dlf` namespace with:

```bash
kubectl create ns dlf
```

Then, based on your environment, execute **one** of the following commands:

- **Kubernetes/Minikube**

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/datashim-io/datashim/master/release-tools/manifests/dlf.yaml
```

- **Kubernetes on IBM Cloud**

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/datashim-io/datashim/master/release-tools/manifests/dlf-ibm-k8s.yaml
```

- **Openshift**

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/datashim-io/datashim/master/release-tools/manifests/dlf-oc.yaml
```

- **Openshift on IBM Cloud**

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/datashim-io/datashim/master/release-tools/manifests/dlf-ibm-oc.yaml
```

### Post-install steps

Ensure that Datashim has been deployed correctly and ready by using the
following command:

```bash
kubectl wait --for=condition=ready pods -l app.kubernetes.io/name=datashim -n dlf
```

Datashim's label-based functionalities require the
`monitor-pods-datasets=enabled` annotation. To enable it in the `default`
namespace, for example, you can run:

```bash
kubectl label namespace default monitor-pods-datasets=enabled
```

## Using Datashim

!!! warning

    This section requires you to have an existing S3 bucket available.
    If you do not have one, you can deploy a local S3 server using
    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f https://github.com/datashim-io/datashim/raw/master/examples/minio/minio.yaml
    ```

To use Datashim, we need to create a _Dataset_: we can do so by editing and
running the following:

!!! danger inline end

    Hardcoding your credentials in a Dataset is insecure.

    This example is provided only because of its simplicity, but we recommend
    storing your credentials in a Secret and referencing it in a Dataset
    as shown [here](examples.md#using-datasets-with-secret-references)

    **Make sure you delete this example Dataset after you've tried it**.

```yaml
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: datashim.io/v1alpha1
kind: Dataset
metadata:
  name: example-dataset
spec:
  local:
    type: "COS"
    accessKeyID: "{AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID}"
    secretAccessKey: "{AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY}"
    endpoint: "{S3_SERVICE_URL}"
    bucket: "{BUCKET_NAME}"
    readonly: "true" #OPTIONAL, default is false
    region: "" #OPTIONAL
EOF
```

If everything worked, you should now see a PVC named `example-dataset` which you
can mount in your pods. Assuming you have labeled your namespace with
`monitor-pods-datasets=enabled` as mentioned in the
[post-install steps](#post-install-steps), you will now be able to mount the PVC
in a pod as simply as this:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: nginx
  labels:
    dataset.0.id: "example-dataset"
    dataset.0.useas: "mount"
spec:
  containers:
    - name: nginx
      image: nginx
```

As a convention the Dataset will be mounted in `/mnt/datasets/example-dataset`.
If instead you wish to pass the connection details as environment variables,
change the `useas` line to `dataset.0.useas: "configmap"`

## Learn more

To learn more about Datashim and how it can help you, explore our
[examples](examples.md)

Commit message:

docs: add advanced usage and use-cases pages
Signed-off-by: Alessandro Pomponio <alessandro.pomponio1@ibm.com>

docs/index.md, after:

[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/IBM/dataset-lifecycle-framework)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/datashim-io/datashim)
[![CII Best Practices](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/4821/badge)](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/4821)

# Datashim

<img src="./pictures/lfaidata-project-badge-incubation-color.png" alt="drawing" width="200"/>

## Overview

Datashim is a Kubernetes Framework to provide easy access to S3 and NFS
**Datasets** within pods. It orchestrates the provisioning of **Persistent
Volume Claims** and **ConfigMaps** needed for each **Dataset**.

Datashim introduces the **Dataset** CRD which is a pointer to existing S3 and
NFS data sources. It includes the necessary logic to map these Datasets into
Persistent Volume Claims and ConfigMaps which users can reference in their pods,
letting them focus on the workload development and not on
configuring/mounting/tuning the data access. Thanks to
[Container Storage Interface](https://kubernetes-csi.github.io/docs/) it is
extensible to support additional data sources in the future.

![DLF](./pictures/dlf.png)

## Installing

!!! tip

    Make sure you also read the [post-install steps](#post-install-steps)
    as they contain important information

### Using Helm

Add the Datashim Helm repository with the following commands:

```bash
helm repo add datashim https://datashim-io.github.io/datashim/
helm repo update
```

Once this has completed, run:

```bash
helm search repo datashim --versions
```

To verify that the repository has been added correctly. You can now install
Datashim with:

```bash
helm install --namespace=dlf --create-namespace \
              datashim datashim/datashim-charts
```

### Using manifests

If you prefer, you can install Datashim using the manifests provided. Start by
creating the `dlf` namespace with:

```bash
kubectl create ns dlf
```

Then, based on your environment, execute **one** of the following commands:

- **Kubernetes/Minikube**

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/datashim-io/datashim/master/release-tools/manifests/dlf.yaml
```

- **Kubernetes on IBM Cloud**

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/datashim-io/datashim/master/release-tools/manifests/dlf-ibm-k8s.yaml
```

- **Openshift**

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/datashim-io/datashim/master/release-tools/manifests/dlf-oc.yaml
```

- **Openshift on IBM Cloud**

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/datashim-io/datashim/master/release-tools/manifests/dlf-ibm-oc.yaml
```

### Post-install steps

Ensure that Datashim has been deployed correctly and ready by using the
following command:

```bash
kubectl wait --for=condition=ready pods -l app.kubernetes.io/name=datashim -n dlf
```

Datashim's label-based functionalities require the
`monitor-pods-datasets=enabled` annotation. To enable it in the `default`
namespace, for example, you can run:

```bash
kubectl label namespace default monitor-pods-datasets=enabled
```

## Using Datashim

!!! warning

    This section requires you to have an existing S3 bucket available.
    If you do not have one, you can deploy a local S3 server using
    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f https://github.com/datashim-io/datashim/raw/master/examples/minio/minio.yaml
    ```

To use Datashim, we need to create a _Dataset_: we can do so by editing and
running the following:

!!! danger inline end

    Hardcoding your credentials in a Dataset is insecure.

    This example is provided only because of its simplicity, but we recommend
    storing your credentials in a Secret and referencing it in a Dataset
    as shown [here](feature-showcase.md#using-datasets-with-secret-references)

    **Make sure you delete this example Dataset after you've tried it**.

```yaml
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: datashim.io/v1alpha1
kind: Dataset
metadata:
  name: example-dataset
spec:
  local:
    type: "COS"
    accessKeyID: "{AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID}"
    secretAccessKey: "{AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY}"
    endpoint: "{S3_SERVICE_URL}"
    bucket: "{BUCKET_NAME}"
    readonly: "true" #OPTIONAL, default is false
    region: "" #OPTIONAL
EOF
```

If everything worked, you should now see a PVC named `example-dataset` which you
can mount in your pods. Assuming you have labeled your namespace with
`monitor-pods-datasets=enabled` as mentioned in the
[post-install steps](#post-install-steps), you will now be able to mount the PVC
in a pod as simply as this:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: nginx
  labels:
    dataset.0.id: "example-dataset"
    dataset.0.useas: "mount"
spec:
  containers:
    - name: nginx
      image: nginx
```

As a convention the Dataset will be mounted in `/mnt/datasets/example-dataset`.
If instead you wish to pass the connection details as environment variables,
change the `useas` line to `dataset.0.useas: "configmap"`

## Learn more

To learn more about Datashim and how it can help you, explore our
[Feature Showcase](feature-showcase.md) and the [Use Cases](use-cases.md)
sections.
